ShowMeTheMoney
==============

Where Does the Money Really go?  Problem: Billions of dollars in aid and/or grant money flow into various nations of the world. How much of that money stays "in country?" Presumably, this has implications on longer-term impact on development funding's impact through local job creation. However, that money sometimes ends up flowing outside the beneficiary country to a foreign supplier. If the money is utilized in the country of origin (to original target to which the aid/grant was initially given to), that could go a long way in promoting sustainable development- but first we need to know where the money really goes.  To begin exploring this question and more, the World Bank released Major Contract Awards data from January-April 2012 just for RHoK.  The Solution: Looking at the trends by mapping the inflow and outflow of the money in aid/grant recepient countries.  Concept: Using the World Bank Contracts data and "following the money" to find the net amount that stayed in the countries receiving the aid/grant. Using simple data visualization tools and processes to help users trace, compare, and contrast the money flow between various countries.  Beyond this App: WBContracts data visualization on "single-sourced contracts" data that Lucas Cioffi created which was a source of inspiration for the "Show Me the Money- Where does the money really go?" App.  The outflow of contract money is not currently reflected as an "input" to supplier countries- but this is of course a natural next step.  As data becomes more interesting in a local context, it would be interesting to explore hyperlocal links and flows- especially when viewed with corresponding development indicators.  Additionally, a citizen engagement/feedback model getting feedback from local stakeholders on the actual suppliers would be an important next step.  The Team:  Matt Glover, mpglover@gmail.com Serign Jobe, serignjobe@gmail.com Vijay Rao, mail.vjrao@gmail.com Nehaumma Reddy, nehaummareddy@gmail.com Chelsey Towns, towns.chelsey@gmail.com Lucas Cioffi, lucas.cioffi@gmail.com Matthew McNaughton mamcnaughton@gmail.com Julia Bezgacheva, julia.bezgacheva@gmail.com Sam Lee, samyslee@gmail.com Gaurav Tiwari, gtiwari@syr.edu  Get the data:  Major WB Contracts Award data  This set of procurement contract awards includes data on commitments against contracts that were reviewed and agreed to by Bank staff before they were awarded (prior-review Bank-funded contracts) awarded under IDA/IBRD investment projects and related Trust Funds.This dataset does not list all contracts awarded by the Bank, and should be viewed only as a guide to determine the distribution of major contracts among the Bank's member countries. The Procurement Policy and Services Group does not guarantee the data included in this publication and accepts no responsibility whatsoever for any consequences of its use. 